documentation/docs/getting-started/providers.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Configure LLM Provider
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Supported LLM Providers

Goose is compatible with a wide range of LLM providers, allowing you to choose and integrate your preferred model.

:::tip Model Selection
Goose relies heavily on tool calling capabilities and currently works best with Anthropic's Claude 3.5 Sonnet and OpenAI's GPT-4o (2024-11-20) model.
[Berkeley Function-Calling Leaderboard][function-calling-leaderboard] can be a good guide for selecting models.
:::

## Available Providers

| Provider                                      | Description                                         |   Parameters                          |
|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| [Anthropic](https://www.anthropic.com/)       | Offers Claude, an advanced AI model for natural language tasks. | `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`                   |
| [Databricks](https://www.databricks.com/)     | Unified data analytics and AI platform for building and deploying models. | `DATABRICKS_HOST`, `DATABRICKS_TOKEN` |
| [Gemini](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs) | Advanced LLMs by Google with multimodal capabilities (text, images).    | `GOOGLE_API_KEY`                      |
| [Groq](https://groq.com/)                     | High-performance inference hardware and tools for LLMs.    | `GROQ_API_KEY`                        |
| [Ollama](https://ollama.com/)                 | Local model runner supporting Qwen, Llama, DeepSeek, and other open-source models. **Because this provider runs locally, you must first [download and run a model](/docs/getting-started/providers#local-llms-ollama).** | `OLLAMA_HOST`                                 |
| [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) | Provides gpt-4o, o1, and other advanced language models. **o1-mini and o1-preview are not supported because Goose uses tool calling.**                                                                                  | `OPENAI_API_KEY`                      |
| [OpenRouter](https://openrouter.ai/)          | API gateway for unified access to various models with features like rate-limiting management.  | `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`                  |


   
## Configure Provider

To configure your chosen provider or see available options, run `goose configure` in the CLI or visit the `Provider Settings` page in the Goose Desktop.

<Tabs groupId="interface">
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Goose CLI" default>
    1. Run the following command: 

    ```sh
    goose configure
    ```

    2. Select `Configure Providers` from the menu and press Enter.

    ```
   ┌   goose-configure 
   │
   ◆  What would you like to configure?
   │  ● Configure Providers (Change provider or update credentials)
   │  ○ Toggle Extensions 
   │  ○ Add Extension 
   └  
   ```
   3. Choose a model provider and press Enter.

   ```
   ┌   goose-configure 
   │
   ◇  What would you like to configure?
   │  Configure Providers 
   │
   ◆  Which model provider should we use?
   │  ● Anthropic (Claude and other models from Anthropic)
   │  ○ Databricks 
   │  ○ Google Gemini 
   │  ○ Groq 
   │  ○ Ollama 
   │  ○ OpenAI 
   │  ○ OpenRouter 
   └  
   ```
   4. Enter your API key (and any other configuration details) when prompted

   ```
   ┌   goose-configure 
   │
   ◇  What would you like to configure?
   │  Configure Providers 
   │
   ◇  Which model provider should we use?
   │  Anthropic 
   │
   ◆  Provider Anthropic requires ANTHROPIC_API_KEY, please enter a value
   │   
   └  
```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ui" label="Goose Desktop">
  **To update your LLM provider and API key:** 
  1. Click `...` in the upper right corner
  2. Click `Settings`
  3. Next to `Models`, click the `browse` link
  4. Click the `configure` link in the upper right corner
  4. Press the `+` button next to the provider of your choice
  5. Add additional configurations (API key, host, etc) then press `submit`

  **To add/change provider model**
  1. Click `...` in the upper right corner
  2. Click `Settings`
  3. Next to `Models`, click the `browse` link
  4. Scroll down to `Add Model` 
  5. Select a Provider from drop down menu
  6. Enter Model name and press `+ Add Model`

  You can explore more models by selecting a `provider` name under `Browse by Provider`. A link will appear, directing you to the provider’s website. Once you've found the model you want, return to step 6 and paste the model name.
  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Using Goose for Free

Goose is a free and open source AI agent that you can start using right away, but not all supported [LLM Providers][providers] provide a free tier. 

Below, we outline a couple of free options and how to get started with them.

:::warning Limitations
These free options are a great way to get started with Goose and explore its capabilities. However, you may need to upgrade your LLM for better performance.
:::


### Google Gemini
Google Gemini provides a free tier. To start using the Gemini API with Goose, you need an API Key from [Google AI studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey).

To set up Google Gemini with Goose, follow these steps:

<Tabs groupId="interface">
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Goose CLI" default>
    1. Run: 
    ```sh
    goose configure
    ```
    2. Select `Configure Providers` from the menu.
    3. Follow the prompts to choose `Google Gemini` as the provider.
    4. Enter your API key when prompted.
    5. Enter the Gemini model of your choice.

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure
    │
    ◇ What would you like to configure?
    │ Configure Providers
    │
    ◇ Which model provider should we use?
    │ Google Gemini
    │
    ◇ Provider Google Gemini requires GOOGLE_API_KEY, please enter a value
    │▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪
    │    
    ◇ Enter a model from that provider:
    │ gemini-2.0-flash-exp
    │
    ◇ Hello! You're all set and ready to go, feel free to ask me anything!
    │
    └ Configuration saved successfully
    ```
    
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ui" label="Goose Desktop">
  **To update your LLM provider and API key:** 

    1. Click on the three dots in the top-right corner.
    2. Select `Provider Settings` from the menu.
    2. Choose `Google Gemini` as provider from the list.
    3. Click Edit, enter your API key, and click `Set as Active`.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>


### Local LLMs (Ollama)

Ollama provides local LLMs, which requires a bit more set up before you can use it with Goose.

1. [Download Ollama](https://ollama.com/download). 
2. Run any [model supporting tool-calling](https://ollama.com/search?c=tools):

:::warning Limited Support for models without tool calling
Goose extensively uses tool calling, so models without it (e.g. `DeepSeek-r1`) can only do chat completion. If using models without tool calling, all Goose [extensions must be disabled](/docs/getting-started/using-extensions#enablingdisabling-extensions). As an alternative, you can use a [custom DeepSeek-r1 model](/docs/getting-started/providers#deepseek-r1) we've made specifically for Goose.
:::

Example:

```sh
ollama run qwen2.5
```

3. In a separate terminal window, configure with Goose:

```sh
goose configure
```

4. Choose to `Configure Providers`

```
┌   goose-configure 
│
◆  What would you like to configure?
│  ● Configure Providers (Change provider or update credentials)
│  ○ Toggle Extensions 
│  ○ Add Extension 
└  
```

5. Choose `Ollama` as the model provider

```
┌   goose-configure 
│
◇  What would you like to configure?
│  Configure Providers 
│
◆  Which model provider should we use?
│  ○ Anthropic 
│  ○ Databricks 
│  ○ Google Gemini 
│  ○ Groq 
│  ● Ollama (Local open source models)
│  ○ OpenAI 
│  ○ OpenRouter 
└  
```

5. Enter the host where your model is running

:::info Endpoint
For Ollama, if you don't provide a host, we set it to `localhost:11434`. When constructing the URL, we preprend `http://` if the scheme is not `http` or `https`. If you're running Ollama on port 80 or 443, you'll have to set `OLLMA_HOST=http://host:{port}`
:::

```
┌   goose-configure 
│
◇  What would you like to configure?
│  Configure Providers 
│
◇  Which model provider should we use?
│  Ollama 
│
◆  Provider Ollama requires OLLAMA_HOST, please enter a value
│  http://localhost:11434
└
```


6. Enter the model you have running

```
┌   goose-configure 
│
◇  What would you like to configure?
│  Configure Providers 
│
◇  Which model provider should we use?
│  Ollama 
│
◇  Provider Ollama requires OLLAMA_HOST, please enter a value
│  http://localhost:11434
│
◇  Enter a model from that provider:
│  qwen2.5
│
◇  Welcome! You're all set to explore and utilize my capabilities. Let's get started on solving your problems together!
│
└  Configuration saved successfully
```

### DeepSeek-R1

Ollama provides open source LLMs, such as `DeepSeek-r1`, that you can install and run locally.
Note that the native `DeepSeek-r1` model doesn't support tool calling, however, we have a [custom model](https://ollama.com/michaelneale/deepseek-r1-goose) you can use with Goose. 

:::warning
Note that this is a 70B model size and requires a powerful device to run smoothly.
:::


1. Download and install Ollama from [ollama.com](https://ollama.com/download).
2. In a terminal window, run the following command to install the custom DeepSeek-r1 model:

```sh
ollama run michaelneale/deepseek-r1-goose
```

<Tabs groupId="interface">
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Goose CLI" default>
    3. In a separate terminal window, configure with Goose:

    ```sh
    goose configure
    ```

    4. Choose to `Configure Providers`

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure 
    │
    ◆  What would you like to configure?
    │  ● Configure Providers (Change provider or update credentials)
    │  ○ Toggle Extensions 
    │  ○ Add Extension 
    └  
    ```

    5. Choose `Ollama` as the model provider

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure 
    │
    ◇  What would you like to configure?
    │  Configure Providers 
    │
    ◆  Which model provider should we use?
    │  ○ Anthropic 
    │  ○ Databricks 
    │  ○ Google Gemini 
    │  ○ Groq 
    │  ● Ollama (Local open source models)
    │  ○ OpenAI 
    │  ○ OpenRouter 
    └  
    ```

    5. Enter the host where your model is running

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure 
    │
    ◇  What would you like to configure?
    │  Configure Providers 
    │
    ◇  Which model provider should we use?
    │  Ollama 
    │
    ◆  Provider Ollama requires OLLAMA_HOST, please enter a value
    │  http://localhost:11434
    └
    ```

    6. Enter the installed model from above

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure 
    │
    ◇  What would you like to configure?
    │  Configure Providers 
    │
    ◇  Which model provider should we use?
    │  Ollama 
    │
    ◇   Provider Ollama requires OLLAMA_HOST, please enter a value
    │  http://localhost:11434  
    │    
    ◇  Enter a model from that provider:
    │  michaelneale/deepseek-r1-goose
    │
    ◇  Welcome! You're all set to explore and utilize my capabilities. Let's get started on solving your problems together!
    │
    └  Configuration saved successfully
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ui" label="Goose Desktop">
    3. Click `...` in the top-right corner.
    4. Navigate to `Settings` -> `Browse Models` -> and select `Ollama` from the list.
    5. Enter `michaelneale/deepseek-r1-goose` for the model name.
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

If you have any questions or need help with a specific provider, feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/block-opensource) or on the [Goose repo](https://github.com/block/goose).


[providers]: /docs/getting-started/providers
[function-calling-leaderboard]: https://gorilla.cs.berkeley.edu/leaderboard.html

Commit message:

docs: Add Amazon Bedrock & Azure OpenAI Providers (#1243)

documentation/docs/getting-started/providers.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Configure LLM Provider
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Supported LLM Providers

Goose is compatible with a wide range of LLM providers, allowing you to choose and integrate your preferred model.

:::tip Model Selection
Goose relies heavily on tool calling capabilities and currently works best with Anthropic's Claude 3.5 Sonnet and OpenAI's GPT-4o (2024-11-20) model.
[Berkeley Function-Calling Leaderboard][function-calling-leaderboard] can be a good guide for selecting models.
:::

## Available Providers

| Provider                                      | Description                                         |   Parameters                          |
|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
|[Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/)| Offers a variety of foundation models, including Claude, Jurassic-2, and others. **Environment variables must be set in advance, not configured through `goose configure`**  |  `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_REGION`|
| [Anthropic](https://www.anthropic.com/)       | Offers Claude, an advanced AI model for natural language tasks. | `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`                   |
|[Azure OpenAI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/) | Access Azure-hosted OpenAI models, including GPT-4 and GPT-3.5.| `AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY`, `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT`, `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME` |
| [Databricks](https://www.databricks.com/)     | Unified data analytics and AI platform for building and deploying models. | `DATABRICKS_HOST`, `DATABRICKS_TOKEN` |
| [Gemini](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs) | Advanced LLMs by Google with multimodal capabilities (text, images).    | `GOOGLE_API_KEY`                      |
| [Groq](https://groq.com/)                     | High-performance inference hardware and tools for LLMs.    | `GROQ_API_KEY`                        |
| [Ollama](https://ollama.com/)                 | Local model runner supporting Qwen, Llama, DeepSeek, and other open-source models. **Because this provider runs locally, you must first [download and run a model](/docs/getting-started/providers#local-llms-ollama).** | `OLLAMA_HOST`                                 |
| [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) | Provides gpt-4o, o1, and other advanced language models. **o1-mini and o1-preview are not supported because Goose uses tool calling.**                                                                                  | `OPENAI_API_KEY`                      |
| [OpenRouter](https://openrouter.ai/)          | API gateway for unified access to various models with features like rate-limiting management.  | `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`                  |


   
## Configure Provider

To configure your chosen provider or see available options, run `goose configure` in the CLI or visit the `Provider Settings` page in the Goose Desktop.

<Tabs groupId="interface">
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Goose CLI" default>
    1. Run the following command: 

    ```sh
    goose configure
    ```

    2. Select `Configure Providers` from the menu and press Enter.

    ```
   ┌   goose-configure 
   │
   ◆  What would you like to configure?
   │  ● Configure Providers (Change provider or update credentials)
   │  ○ Toggle Extensions 
   │  ○ Add Extension 
   └  
   ```
   3. Choose a model provider and press Enter.

   ```
   ┌   goose-configure 
   │
   ◇  What would you like to configure?
   │  Configure Providers 
   │
   ◆  Which model provider should we use?
   │  ● Anthropic (Claude and other models from Anthropic)
   │  ○ Databricks 
   │  ○ Google Gemini 
   │  ○ Groq 
   │  ○ Ollama 
   │  ○ OpenAI 
   │  ○ OpenRouter 
   └  
   ```
   4. Enter your API key (and any other configuration details) when prompted

   ```
   ┌   goose-configure 
   │
   ◇  What would you like to configure?
   │  Configure Providers 
   │
   ◇  Which model provider should we use?
   │  Anthropic 
   │
   ◆  Provider Anthropic requires ANTHROPIC_API_KEY, please enter a value
   │   
   └  
```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ui" label="Goose Desktop">
  **To update your LLM provider and API key:** 
  1. Click `...` in the upper right corner
  2. Click `Settings`
  3. Next to `Models`, click the `browse` link
  4. Click the `configure` link in the upper right corner
  4. Press the `+` button next to the provider of your choice
  5. Add additional configurations (API key, host, etc) then press `submit`

  **To add/change provider model**
  1. Click `...` in the upper right corner
  2. Click `Settings`
  3. Next to `Models`, click the `browse` link
  4. Scroll down to `Add Model` 
  5. Select a Provider from drop down menu
  6. Enter Model name and press `+ Add Model`

  You can explore more models by selecting a `provider` name under `Browse by Provider`. A link will appear, directing you to the provider’s website. Once you've found the model you want, return to step 6 and paste the model name.
  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Using Goose for Free

Goose is a free and open source AI agent that you can start using right away, but not all supported [LLM Providers][providers] provide a free tier. 

Below, we outline a couple of free options and how to get started with them.

:::warning Limitations
These free options are a great way to get started with Goose and explore its capabilities. However, you may need to upgrade your LLM for better performance.
:::


### Google Gemini
Google Gemini provides a free tier. To start using the Gemini API with Goose, you need an API Key from [Google AI studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey).

To set up Google Gemini with Goose, follow these steps:

<Tabs groupId="interface">
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Goose CLI" default>
    1. Run: 
    ```sh
    goose configure
    ```
    2. Select `Configure Providers` from the menu.
    3. Follow the prompts to choose `Google Gemini` as the provider.
    4. Enter your API key when prompted.
    5. Enter the Gemini model of your choice.

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure
    │
    ◇ What would you like to configure?
    │ Configure Providers
    │
    ◇ Which model provider should we use?
    │ Google Gemini
    │
    ◇ Provider Google Gemini requires GOOGLE_API_KEY, please enter a value
    │▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪▪
    │    
    ◇ Enter a model from that provider:
    │ gemini-2.0-flash-exp
    │
    ◇ Hello! You're all set and ready to go, feel free to ask me anything!
    │
    └ Configuration saved successfully
    ```
    
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ui" label="Goose Desktop">
  **To update your LLM provider and API key:** 

    1. Click on the three dots in the top-right corner.
    2. Select `Provider Settings` from the menu.
    2. Choose `Google Gemini` as provider from the list.
    3. Click Edit, enter your API key, and click `Set as Active`.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>


### Local LLMs (Ollama)

Ollama provides local LLMs, which requires a bit more set up before you can use it with Goose.

1. [Download Ollama](https://ollama.com/download). 
2. Run any [model supporting tool-calling](https://ollama.com/search?c=tools):

:::warning Limited Support for models without tool calling
Goose extensively uses tool calling, so models without it (e.g. `DeepSeek-r1`) can only do chat completion. If using models without tool calling, all Goose [extensions must be disabled](/docs/getting-started/using-extensions#enablingdisabling-extensions). As an alternative, you can use a [custom DeepSeek-r1 model](/docs/getting-started/providers#deepseek-r1) we've made specifically for Goose.
:::

Example:

```sh
ollama run qwen2.5
```

3. In a separate terminal window, configure with Goose:

```sh
goose configure
```

4. Choose to `Configure Providers`

```
┌   goose-configure 
│
◆  What would you like to configure?
│  ● Configure Providers (Change provider or update credentials)
│  ○ Toggle Extensions 
│  ○ Add Extension 
└  
```

5. Choose `Ollama` as the model provider

```
┌   goose-configure 
│
◇  What would you like to configure?
│  Configure Providers 
│
◆  Which model provider should we use?
│  ○ Anthropic 
│  ○ Databricks 
│  ○ Google Gemini 
│  ○ Groq 
│  ● Ollama (Local open source models)
│  ○ OpenAI 
│  ○ OpenRouter 
└  
```

5. Enter the host where your model is running

:::info Endpoint
For Ollama, if you don't provide a host, we set it to `localhost:11434`. When constructing the URL, we preprend `http://` if the scheme is not `http` or `https`. If you're running Ollama on port 80 or 443, you'll have to set `OLLMA_HOST=http://host:{port}`
:::

```
┌   goose-configure 
│
◇  What would you like to configure?
│  Configure Providers 
│
◇  Which model provider should we use?
│  Ollama 
│
◆  Provider Ollama requires OLLAMA_HOST, please enter a value
│  http://localhost:11434
└
```


6. Enter the model you have running

```
┌   goose-configure 
│
◇  What would you like to configure?
│  Configure Providers 
│
◇  Which model provider should we use?
│  Ollama 
│
◇  Provider Ollama requires OLLAMA_HOST, please enter a value
│  http://localhost:11434
│
◇  Enter a model from that provider:
│  qwen2.5
│
◇  Welcome! You're all set to explore and utilize my capabilities. Let's get started on solving your problems together!
│
└  Configuration saved successfully
```

### DeepSeek-R1

Ollama provides open source LLMs, such as `DeepSeek-r1`, that you can install and run locally.
Note that the native `DeepSeek-r1` model doesn't support tool calling, however, we have a [custom model](https://ollama.com/michaelneale/deepseek-r1-goose) you can use with Goose. 

:::warning
Note that this is a 70B model size and requires a powerful device to run smoothly.
:::


1. Download and install Ollama from [ollama.com](https://ollama.com/download).
2. In a terminal window, run the following command to install the custom DeepSeek-r1 model:

```sh
ollama run michaelneale/deepseek-r1-goose
```

<Tabs groupId="interface">
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Goose CLI" default>
    3. In a separate terminal window, configure with Goose:

    ```sh
    goose configure
    ```

    4. Choose to `Configure Providers`

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure 
    │
    ◆  What would you like to configure?
    │  ● Configure Providers (Change provider or update credentials)
    │  ○ Toggle Extensions 
    │  ○ Add Extension 
    └  
    ```

    5. Choose `Ollama` as the model provider

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure 
    │
    ◇  What would you like to configure?
    │  Configure Providers 
    │
    ◆  Which model provider should we use?
    │  ○ Anthropic 
    │  ○ Databricks 
    │  ○ Google Gemini 
    │  ○ Groq 
    │  ● Ollama (Local open source models)
    │  ○ OpenAI 
    │  ○ OpenRouter 
    └  
    ```

    5. Enter the host where your model is running

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure 
    │
    ◇  What would you like to configure?
    │  Configure Providers 
    │
    ◇  Which model provider should we use?
    │  Ollama 
    │
    ◆  Provider Ollama requires OLLAMA_HOST, please enter a value
    │  http://localhost:11434
    └
    ```

    6. Enter the installed model from above

    ```
    ┌   goose-configure 
    │
    ◇  What would you like to configure?
    │  Configure Providers 
    │
    ◇  Which model provider should we use?
    │  Ollama 
    │
    ◇   Provider Ollama requires OLLAMA_HOST, please enter a value
    │  http://localhost:11434  
    │    
    ◇  Enter a model from that provider:
    │  michaelneale/deepseek-r1-goose
    │
    ◇  Welcome! You're all set to explore and utilize my capabilities. Let's get started on solving your problems together!
    │
    └  Configuration saved successfully
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ui" label="Goose Desktop">
    3. Click `...` in the top-right corner.
    4. Navigate to `Settings` -> `Browse Models` -> and select `Ollama` from the list.
    5. Enter `michaelneale/deepseek-r1-goose` for the model name.
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

If you have any questions or need help with a specific provider, feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/block-opensource) or on the [Goose repo](https://github.com/block/goose).


[providers]: /docs/getting-started/providers
[function-calling-leaderboard]: https://gorilla.cs.berkeley.edu/leaderboard.html
